in the main building of sh Hospital
which is the main General surger and
Orthopedic building above the emergency
department so the the situation is
getting really more and more tighter
it's really horrible here it has been
continuous bombing and firing uh since
the last let me say five hours almost
the Israel is tanks are moving towards
the shifa hospital I've seen two tanks
getting in the gate the main gate the
Eastern Gate of shifa hospital and they
were inside shifa hospital and we keep
hearing the tanks moving within the area
of chifa Hospital the bombing have been
really really aggressive over the last
few many hours with continuous uh
shooting you know all over the place all
over the areas you cannot you don't know
from where exactly sometimes you hear it
from the East the other time you see
from the south or from the West so it's
totally like surrounding the hospital
and keeps firing continuously with all
kinds of you know to the hospital the
Israelis have called the hospital
Administration around an hour ago saying
that they are getting in the hospital
and they are about to get inside the
buildings and to investigate and to try
to check each building one by one and
each room within the hospital and they
advise the people they them not to look
through the windows or the doors and
that everyone might be at risk if they
TR to do anything so uh and then they
said nothing about the way of doing this
they said nothing about the mechanism of
getting in uh the the the Weir thing
that since they ask about this thing
nothing has happened at least in our
building I can tell you and then the you
know the the bombing and the shooting
you can hear it ground didn't stop at
all sometimes it's really really very
very dense so uh so again the hospital
is full of patients we have around 700
patients we have civilians within the
hospital Sheltering there are families
with kids with ladies and we have the
medical staff so imagine how scary is
that to everyone here with the hospital
everyone feels scary and and imagine for
the Paran this the first time to be in
contact with the Israelis at least for
whoever was born uh you know in their in
their 0s yeah it sounds it sounds like
an absolutely terrifying situation
unfolding in a hospital which is meant
to be a place of healing and also of
Refuge often in Gaza Dr ammed Malala
Lati you're saying that you are inside
the main building that you can hear um
that you can hear explosion that you can
hear gunfire that you've seen Israeli
tanks but can you just tell us exactly
where you are inside the main building
of shiffer and and what is around you
what is it that you can see around
you actually we in the doctor's office
here we we can't check anything you know
it's totally dangerous to try to check
through the window so what happened
since they start the attacking the
people tried to go inside the corridors
and none of the people is you know
directly within the windows areas as the
the Israelis will be shooting all over
the areas and what happened that maybe
three hours ago they attacked the fourth
floor of the same building with a with a
little like just small rocket or
something happened to one of the
patients room with around half meter
diameter hole happened in the water so
the people know it's totally unsafe okay
to to stay to stay within the windows or
the doors so luckily our room is like we
have two rooms so we are in the back
room which is away from the windows okay
otherwise all the patients and the
people are within the the corridors and
and who is in the doctor's office with
you let me tell you something as as as
Palestinians okay as doctors whoever
decided to stay in shifa hospital feels
it's totally a Big challenge we have
taken out to ourselves we have taken
decision to be Ms uh you know until we
survive this horrible situation this
massacre happening so uh most of the
doctors are sleeping now okay it's 3:00
in the morning the people are really
tired because we have been working the
whole day we don't care about the
Israelis what we care more about our
patients what we feel the worst thing to
happen is to lose the uh what we wanted
to do which is taking care of our
patient if the Israelis would Evacuate
the hospital in improper way or killing
whatever they want then we lose 700
patients who need really active care at
this moment these are the ones who whom
for which we stayed in Gaza we stayed in
sh hospital we feel this is our message
you know our mission to help these
people we are dedicated to help them so
what we are worried about not about the
Israel we don't care listen whatever
they do we feel this is a good chance
which happen to doctors to be part of
you know just resisting this uh
occupation and just being in our places
helping our patients our people in Gaza
so literally literally I think that
people won't understand how how relaxed
we are from inside but happen that the
people feel scary it's totally scary
situation it's totally unacceptable
situation the first two hours we were
walking between the patients calming
them down between the and are you still
Dr MTI are you still able to attend to
any patients are any of the doctors
there are any of the nurses able to
attend to these patients when there is
an ongoing Israeli ground operation in
the
hospital unfortunately we reach a level
before this attack today that we run out
of the electricity for most of the
Departments so there is no scan there is
no x-rays there is no laboratory working
there is no most of the the hospital
setup is like almost collapsed so even
in the operating the we have no
electricity no oxygen supply uh so we
operate only the life saving things so
for the last sorry two days we're unable
to provide really proper care to the
patient just when the Israelis have
announced that they are coming in we had
a patient with upper like with bleeding
from the mouth through the Gast from the
stomach we were unable to do anything
not because we were scared yeah it
happened because the endoscopy
department is in another building which
is totally evacuated now because of and
this is of course something that we have
been showing on Al jazer over the past
month the crippling of not just gaza's
largest hospital but medical facilities
across the gaza's trip because of not
just Israeli bombardment but the cutting
off of fuel and electricity as a result
of the siege M uh Dr ammed Malla Lati we
thank you very much uh for joining us on
Al jazer to tell us what is happening at
shiffer hospital right now we really
appreciate your time thank you very
much